Methods

The assembled transcript data described in [XXX], comprising 1,184,879 contigs totalling 890 Mb (N50 1274) was obtained from TLL. Repeats on the assembled genome (668 Mb, N50 1191366) were masked out using RepeatMasker. Loci on the genome matching the transcripts were identified using BLAST [ref], loci were filtered and nearby loci were merged using GenBlast [ref] and the transcripts were aligned to the identified regions using Exonerate [ref]. The procedure was parallelised by splitting the assembled transcript FASTA allowing multiple BLAST and Exonerate processes to run in parallel.

Unassembled RNA seq (reads used in the transcriptome assembly were also obtained from TLL. These were filtered for quality and length and aligned to the masked genome using RNA STAR after which transcripts were assembled using Cufflinks [ref].

Putative transcripts identified by the two methods were compared using Python scripts running in an IPython notebook.

Results


Conclusion

Falling costs of genetic sequencing allows non-model organism sequencing, then annotation. In annotating non-model genomes, mRNA-seq data has great potential to improve annotation quality. For example the Asian sea bass (L. calcarifer) genome annotation effort drew on previously assembled mRNA-seq data provided by the Temasek Life Sciences Laboratory (TLL). At SANBI we undertook gene annotation on the Asian seabass genome using a pipeline built out of custom
scripts. Simultaneously, a team at Saint Petersburg State University undertook the same
task using MAKER2. Comparing the results of this annotation highlighted the impact of tool and parameter choice in gene prediction.

Starting from the mRNA-seq data generated by the team at Temasek Life Sciences Laboratory (TLL)
and using custom scripts and the Galaxy platform, we constructed two workflows, one starting from assembled transcripts and mapping these to the genome using BLAST+ and Exonerate, the other using RNA STAR and Cufflinks. We compared the exons and transcripts predicted by these pipelines and show
that XX% of the exons boundaries predicted overlapped, although the RNA STAR and Cufflinks pipeline was much faster. Using Galaxy allowed us to rapidly compose novel workflows and,
using IPython notebooks embedded within Galaxy, analyse their results. We continue to develop
our workflows in order to produce a complete genome annotation workbench based on the
Galaxy platform.

Transcriptome paper: http://www.mdpi.com/2077-1312/3/2/382/htm
MAKER2 paper: http://bmcbioinformatics.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/1471-2105-12-491

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            